[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Finally,
one more thing about living in the browser
is a problem of division in labor.
Cuz we're now doing client server
programming, and for some people working
in the browser this is the first time
to be doing client server programming.
And that means you're writing distributed
application where half of the application
is running in one machine and half of the
applications running in another machine.
How do you divide the work,
how you decide what goes in which machine?
And I've seen people make mistakes
in every possible dimension.
For example, early on in the web
everything was in the server.
The browser was treated as a terminal,
specifically as an IBM 3270 terminal.
And you would send information
to the server, and
the server would generate a new view and
send it out.
And that was hugely inefficient, and
it was recognition of that inefficiency
which got the Ajax thing so popular.
So when Ajax started,
it went the other way.
People started putting the entire
application in the browser and
they were treating
the server as a file system.
And I saw people trying to basically
replicate their database in the browser.
They'd say take everything we got cuz
who knows if we need it or not, and
they'd send everything over.
And then they'd complain well, why does
it takes so long to send all that data?
That turns out not to be
a good way to do it either.
So what's the right way?
It's to seek the middle way.
That you want to create a pleasant
dialog between specialized peers,
you want to minimize
the volume of traffic,
you want to be sending stuff
on a just in time basis.
You don't need to send the browser
everything it might ever need to know,
you just need to send
it what it needs next.
And that's usually a much smaller set
of data, something you can send very,
very quickly, particularly as
our networks have gotten so
performant.
>> Douglas Crockford: And
that's the end of the browser.
Any questions about that?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I'm just curious what your
thoughts are, kind of the virtual
DOM approach, like diffing, and
I don't know if you have any opinions, or.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
I got opinions,
I don't know if they're useful opinions.
So generally the DOM is a horrible model.
And propagating that horribleness
onto the other side of the network,
I think just keeps you stuck in
that awful model for longer.
I'm hoping someday we figure out a way
to liberate ourselves from the DOM,
cuz it really is dreadful.
And the thing that's encouraging
to me about the library is
that they provide a way of doing that.
That, for example, jQuery is so
much superior as an API for
addressing graphical elements on
a page to what the DOM provides.
I'd like to see us get
better in that dimension.
>> Speaker 3: Is the jQuery just a wrapper
around the DOM?
>> Douglas Crockford: It is.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: But it turns out you
don't need much wrappage to make
the DOM significantly better.
The DOM is so horrible, I recommend
don't use anything that I've showed
you in the last hour, don't use anything.
>> Speaker 3: Don't use
getElementById ever, just use jQuery?
>> Douglas Crockford: Find some library,
I'm not recommending jQuery necessarily.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: But some library,
every library is better than the DOM,
I'm happy to say that.
Even, I don't know what the worst library
out there is, but whatever it is,
it can't be half as bad as the DOM is.
>> Speaker 3: How can,
if jQuery just calls getElementById,
how can
using a jQuery CSS be better than get on.
>> Douglas Crockford: It's
hiding that stuff for you,
it's adding a level of abstraction.
It's adding enough in direction so
you're not thinking in terms of what
the DOM does, you're thinking more in
terms of what you need to do.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: And
it's very effective at that.
A lot of other libraries are too.
>> Speaker 3: Okay so, other question.
I kind of thought that
the DOM was the browser.
How'd the browser work without a DOM?
Because you said there was HTML,
and then right around
the same time that HTML was going from all
caps to lowercase, the DOM was invented.
How would you have
a browser without a DOM?
>> Douglas Crockford: Before there was
JavaScript there was no need for
a DOM, right?
>> Speaker 3: There was no modeling of
the DOM, but the DOM existed in some-
>> Douglas Crockford: The browser
had a tree, but it had no API for
the to get access to that tree.
>> Speaker 3: Okay,
all right.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yes?
>> Speaker 4: I guess listening to just
the history of everything, and
it might not be a question.
But what, everything is funneled
into what it is right now.
And it seems like things are pretty
stably moving in a very succinct way.
And then when I listen to your stories of
how this came from this, and this came
from this, and all these languages came
from all of these other languages.
Do you have an opinion or
an answer to why such a minute,
how come everything is focused so much?
How come there isn’t so much of this
development of these different ideas?
When you were saying the idea of having a,
returning a function took
years to figure that out.
Why, is that still going on,
and what's going on with that,
why the slowdown?
>> Douglas Crockford: It has always been
slow, we'll talk about
this on the third day.
We think of ourselves as being
the most innovative of industries,
and maybe we are.
But we're also humans and
humans tend to be extremely change averse.
And the people who are the last
to recognize the value of a new
technology are often the people
who would most benefit from it.
And there are lots of examples of
that in software technology and
then we will look at those.